Usually you put that master control at the base or at the ground plane which is what I'm going to do.
And usually the pivot point or the or the origin of that object is at the center of the grid.
However I want this one to be able to fly kind of fly down into the scene.
And I want it to be able to pivot kind of around where the jetpack thrusters are.
So I want that pivot point that origin of that bone to be right about here.
So to do that I'm going to come back into edit mode on these bones so all select one and go to Edit
mode.
So I will create one more bone here in edit mode I'll press shift a and that will pop into where the
cursor is.
I will select it and I'm going to go to the side view here and I'll move it up
right around here.
I want the pivot point to be right around here so the pivot point will be where this where the base
of that bone is.
So now I want to create a custom shape for it.
So I'll go back to object mode de-select everything and create a circle and for this I will call this
shape master.
This will be the master control.
And in addition I should probably in edit mode select that bone and let's name this one let me do that.
Let's name this one.
Master Control I'll select that bone in Poser mode and if we come over here to the bone panel custom
shape call the shape and we'll select master and click wireframe.
Now there is the control and what we need to do is rotate it and move it down to the grid floor.
So I'll go into edit mode and let's begin rotating and see what we can do here.
If I rotate it forward.
OK that's good.
Rotates that way.
Well need to scale it some might think.
And then if I move it let's see which way moves it up and down.
This does move like this.
And then I want to move it forward.
That's right.
I'll move this.
No that's not right.
Move it in the z and move it forward like this.
I can see that to be a little bigger.
So there we go.
We've got the master control on the ground floor so we know that when it's zeroed out it's on the ground.
But we also have it so that the pivot point is back here at the thrusters.
So I'll go back to object mode.
Let me select this and I'll move it to that level where we hide all the custom shapes.
Now if I move this around it isn't going to do anything.
I need to parent the proper items to it.
And what I mean by proper items I know I want to parent this I know I want to parent this control to
it.
So I go back to edit mode and I want to parent the body to that master control so I'll select the body
shift select the master control and press control P and keep offset.
Now what else do I want if I select say I select this and pose mode and move it around well now that
we've got this let's select this actually and move it around.
What do I leave behind.
Well I leave behind the feet and the heels but keep in mind the heels are Parenthood to the feet already
and so are the knees.
So I need to parent the feet to the master control.
So I'll take one foot shift select the master control and parent that as well as the other one I to
go.
All right let's go back to pose mode again and I'll say like this one and let's move it and see what
happens.
OK so now we've got almost everything it looks like one of the neat controls is not Parenthood to a
foot control so let's fix that.
I'll come back over here.
Let me test these.
And let me just test this for a quick OK.
That's fine.
Let me go to Edit mode and I will select this and shift select the foot and parent that.
So let's get that OK so now.
Now select this control and pose mode and move it.
So it looks like now all of the feet and the heel and the knees are moving along with it.
That's good.
But we've got problems with the hands the elbows.
Let's work with those so we go back to edit mode select that arm I.K. and shift select the master and
parent it.
Let's try again.
So I come back here to pose mode select them master control and move it.
And why do we leave behind only the spotlight.
All right let's get the spotlight now go back to edit mode shift select the master control P and keep
offset.
So now let's go back to pose mode select that master control and move it around.
And sure enough there we go we can move it.
Now notice that if I go to rotate it'll pivot around that point so it'll hopefully look like the thrusters
are controlling the angle as it's coming down into the scene.
And I also wanted to point out why I put this on the ground plane because if I take this and I move
it move it up you can see that the y increases as I move it up right.
But if I zero it out it goes right back down onto the ground plane the same with the feet.
If I move this up I can zero out the Y and that will plant it back down on the ground.
Now the reason why it's the why and not dizzy is because it's looking at it in local mode.
The last thing I'm going to do here is go back to the armature panel and turn off x rays so we don't
see the controls through the objects and now it looks a little bit better.
It looks a little cleaner.
I think the controls are pretty obvious pretty intuitive as to what they are.
And as I said it's just cleaned up the seam quite a bit so that's about it.
That's the rig for the mech.
What we can do now is begin on the animation.